# CSCI-1200-Homework-4-Debugging-List-Iterators-solved

Download Here: [CSCI-1200 Homework 4 Debugging (&amp; List Iterators) solved](https://jarviscodinghub.com/assignment/homework-4-debugging-list-iterators-solution/)

For Custom/Original Work email jarviscodinghub@gmail.com/whatsapp +1(541)423-7793

IMPORTANT: Read this whole assignment before you download or start working on the code. The format is diﬀerent from our other assignments, so be sure you have read and understood all of the instructions.
Studying and documenting a software error is an essential skill that allows you to reproduce the error, fully describe the problem to other software developers on your team, and ultimately verify that your proposed code ﬁx actually solves the problem.
In this assignment we provide legacy source code for an existing, complete program that decrypts an input text ﬁle. While the program is “complete”, it is in need of some serious debugging. Your job is to debug this program, and then submit both your debugged version of the program AND a detailed writeup of how you found and ﬁxed the bugs.
Filing a Detailed Bug Report
To document your debugging process you should get into the habit of taking detailed step-by-step notes (and possibly screenshots) of the errors you encounter. Each bug formally ﬁled with a software project is assigned an issue or bug #. A well-written and complete issue or bug report should contain the following relevant information (as appropriate): • Overall development environment: What operating system? Compiler? Computer hardware? etc. • Can you reproduce the problem? What were the command line arguments, input ﬁle(s), or runtime actions (keyboard input, mouse clicks, etc.)? • Describe in words the erroneous behavior: E.g., compilation error/warning, linker error, runtime crash, runtime buggy output, program hangs, etc. • Record the exact text of any error messages. • Record the exact output (to the screen or to a ﬁle). How is this diﬀerent from what you expected? • If you are using a debugger: What ﬁle, function, and line of code? What variable had the incorrect value? etc. • Include screenshots as appropriate to supplement the information above. For this assignment, you should make your own notes about what tools helped you pinpoint the error. If you learned how to use a feature of your debugger, make notes for yourself on how to use that feature and why it was helpful (or not so helpful) to track down this bug.
Submitting a Bug Fix or Patch
Once you have a identiﬁed the exact bug and ﬁgured out what needs to be changed, you should submit a patch with the proposed modiﬁcation of the source code. • What bug or issue # does this patch ﬁx? • The ﬁle name, line number, and original line(s) of code. • The new replacement line(s) of code. • Describe in words why the new code fully addresses and solves the original problem. After ﬁling an oﬃcial bug ﬁx or patch for a large software project, your proposed change will be reviewed by the development team and you may be requested to make edits before the change is accepted and ultimately merged into the project source code.
You should use this assignment as an opportunity to practice making a detailed record of each bug you ﬁx. However, you will not submit the full transcript of your debugging process (more later in the handout).
Goal: Lots of Practice with a Step-by-Step Debugger
The “Rules” for this assignment: • Pretend this is a huge, complex project. It’s so big you can’t read all of the code initially. When you encounter a bug, study the relevant surrounding code as needed to understand the situation and propose a solution. • Try to avoid falling back on “Print Debugging”. Don’t add std::cout or printf statements to the code. Don’t comment out blocks of code. Instead, use the debugger to navigate through the code and examine speciﬁc values in the code. Find a good reference or tutorial on your chosen debugger and learn how to use its amazing features. • Propose the smallest change bug ﬁx. When working with code written by another developer, we are often tempted to make major changes because we personally would have written things diﬀerently. For this assignment, you should adopt the “If it ain’t broke, don’t ﬁx it” policy. Also, when making a bug ﬁx, if there is more than one way to correct the problem, chose a solution that is the smallest edit (fewest number of lines or characters added/edited/deleted).
After completing this assignment, you should have plenty of practice with all (or most) of these things with a debugger of your choice: • Launch/run the program within the debugger (and specify any necessary command line arguments). • Manage (create, list, & delete) breakpoints and watchpoints, including conditional breakpoints and watchpoints. • Control execution of the program one line at a time, either stepping into or over helper functions (using step, next, and continue). • Examine values of arguments and local variables in the current frame. • View the overall call stack, and examine diﬀerent frames on the stack. In addition to these step-by-step debugger skills, you’re encouraged to enable all warnings on the compiler (with -Wall) and use a memory debugger (e.g., Dr. Memory or Valgrind).
The Secret Message Decryption Program
The provided code is organized into four separate operations with additional helper functions. There are many intentionally-placed bugs within this code. Each operations function is designed to return a speciﬁc value that contributes to the decryption process; however, the bugs in these functions will cause the function to return the wrong value or crash! By ﬁnding and ﬁxing all the bugs, you will decrypt the ﬁle piece by piece. The comments left behind by the original developers will tell you how the program is expected to work.
For example, consider the ﬁrst function, arithmetic operations. It starts by initializing 19 diﬀerent variables with various mathematical operations, and its comments indicate what values they should hold to pass all the tests and return the correct value. However, it is fairly easy to notice that these variables are not being calculated correctly, since the program will crash or fail an assert on one of its own tests. Thus, the “bug ﬁx” here is simple: make sure the variables get the correct values.
When all bugs are successfully ﬁxed and the program is run and passed in the encrypted ﬁle as an argument, it will decrypt and print the contents of the ﬁle. It will be obvious when it has been decrypted correctly — you will know when you have it.
We have prepared multiple diﬀerently-buggy versions of the secret message decryption program. Login to Submitty to obtain your assigned version of the buggy decryption source code.
The program should be compiled with the following command. The -lm ﬂag tells g++ (or clang++) to explicitly include the math library, which otherwise might not get linked correctly on some platforms.
2
g++ operations.cpp -lm -o decrypt.exe
To run the program, provide 3 arguments: a ﬂag to indicate which operations to run, the encrypted input ﬁle, and the name of an output ﬁle where the decrypted secret message output should be written.
./decrypt.exe –arithmetic-operations encrypted_input.txt secret_message_output.txt ./decrypt.exe –file-operations encrypted_input.txt secret_message_output.txt ./decrypt.exe –array-operations encrypted_input.txt secret_message_output.txt ./decrypt.exe –vector-operations encrypted_input.txt secret_message_output.txt ./decrypt.exe –list-operations encrypted_input.txt secret_message_output.txt ./decrypt.exe –all-operations encrypted_input.txt secret_message_output.txt
Your Writeup
From your detailed notes, create an approximately 1000-2000 word written report of the debugging process. Rather than detail every bug found and ﬁxed, chose 5-10 bugs that are interesting and demonstrate a variety of debugging methods. Try to show oﬀ each of the debugger skills listed above in at least one of these bug plus bug ﬁx descriptions. NOTE: We’re more interested in your thought process, the description of the mechanical debugging process, and the new skills you learned than the formal bug report and code patch.
You may include screenshots or paste code blocks. But your report should be concise and well-written. You should not have font smaller than 10 point font, and your writeup should be no more than 6 pages in length. You should format this report as a .pdf document. We will not accept or grade any other ﬁle format for the report.
Grading Criteria
Your grade for this assignment will be split into the following components:
15 pts Successful decryption of the secret message. (Partial credit will be awarded for partial decryption.)
10 pts Source code changes to ﬁx bugs are small. (See the “Rules”.)
25 pts Writing Quality: • Report organization and structure. Don’t just submit a full chronological transcript of your debugging process. • Readability: Be concise and use complete sentences. Avoid spelling and grammar mistakes. • Clarity: Describe each selected bug and why it is causing the program to fail. Describe how you found the problem. For non-trivial bugs, also explain why the ﬁx you provided is a good one. • The Debugging Process: Include things you tried that did not work and tell us about diﬀerent approaches you took. If you could not ﬁnd a bug that you knew was there, show us your eﬀorts to ﬁnd it. • Screenshots of Debugger Use: Include a select few that supplement your text. Note on Academic Integrity
Normally, talking about the solutions to problems with other students is ﬁne as long as you do not share code. However, the whole point of this homework is about learning how to ﬁnd, diagnose, and ﬁx bugs in a program. Discussing bugs with other students is thus an academic integrity violation for this assignment.
FINAL NOTE: If you earn at least 10 points (not including the README.txt and compilation) on Submitty by 11:59pm on Wednesday, Feb. 22, you may submit your assignment on Friday, Feb. 24th by 11:59pm without being charged a late day
